In this exercise, we will create a function which checks whether the past string is palindrome or not.
The function will return true or false.
A palindrome.
Word or string is a sequence of characters, which is the same if you read it from left to right or
right to left.
For example, Madam is palindrome because you read this from any side it is made a m only learn regex
is not palindrome as it isn't the same When you read it from right to left, you must note that upper
or lowercase punctuations, symbols or spaces are not considered while reading.
For example, a man comma, a plan, comma, a channel, full stop.
Panama is also palindrome because if I go from right to left, it is still the same.
That is a man, a plan, a canal, Panama.
So here this string is palindrome because the spaces, the comma, the period that is the full stop
is not considered.
While you check whether it is palindrome or not.
For example, never or.
Or even.
Is also palindrome in that case, because we do not consider these spaces in between when we read from
left to right or right to left.
So it's easy to check by converting the reverse of the string as such.
Then why am I discussing this exercise in the regex topic?
The reason is you will use regular expression to remove or ignore symbols, punctuations, spaces and
the conversion of case that is uppercase or lowercase.
At least it's the easiest way.
Though there are multiple ways to achieve the same, so we will use the replace method to remove symbols,
punctuations and spaces.
Let's create a sample code just for that purpose.
Then we will write the rest of the coding for palindrome.
For example, I just have a string in which I will write a few words.
Keeping a space.
Also a number comma.
Right.
Few special characters like DOT an underscore as well.
So this is the string I want to check whether it is palindrome or not.
But before that we are going to apply the regex to remove the special characters, the punctuations
and symbols.
So I will create a pattern here.
I'll say let pattern is equal to now.
You can have a character class where you can say that other than Capital A to Z, small A to Z, 0 to
9 underscore dot and dash other than these characters are invalid for this string.
Let's try this first and see what is the output.
I'll create new string here.
I'll say, Stringer, replace.
What I want.
Is that the pattern will be applied on the string.
And wherever this condition of pattern matches, that is, if there is something which is not between
A to Z or these list items, then I want nothing in that place.
Let's try to display the an str that is new string.
Let's try to run this code.
So now we have this an SDR where you do not see the space and the comma, but still there is a dot and
that is an underscore.
Instead of this, you do also have a character class called Capital W, which will do the very same
thing.
Let me run the code again.
So now you see that there is no dot, no space, no comma, but underscore is left because slash W will
not remove this underscore.
So for that we can give a specific character itself.
So I'll say that you do not want this underscore as well.
Let's run this now and see what's the output.
Now you can see that the string does not have any space, comma, dot or underscore.
In short, the pattern which we have, which is an easier way to remove symbols and punctuations and
spaces and whatnot.
Now we are ready with the pattern.
Next thing is we have to convert the string into either uppercase or lowercase.
Let's go with lowercase.
So I'll say two.
Lowercase.
So whatever string you're are going to retrieve will be in lowercase now.
So it will be easy to compare because while comparing the palindrome, we do make sure that the cases
are also not considered.
The next thing is we want reverse of this nsdl.
So let's say I create one more variable called r str that is reverse string is equal to what do I want?
I want whatever value we have in an STR.
I want to reverse that value.
But mind you, if you run this code it will give an error.
The reason is reverse does not work with a string directly.
You see that when I run this let me go to console.
It says that reverse is not a function.
The reason is reverse works on an array.
So what we can do here is we will convert this into array.
Using the split method.
I will simply say that each character I want to split into an array and that again is reversed by reverse
method.
Not only that, the reversed array you want to convert back into the string also so you will say join.
Like this.
Now our sister will have the reverse string.
So let me just say console here.
Let's run the code.
So now we have the reverse string as well.
Now the only thing remaining is you compare whether an SDR equals to SDR or not.
If yes, then it is palindrome.
If no, then it is not.
But I mentioned in the beginning that we should create a function which returns true or false.
So let's convert this into a function.
So I will simply say.
Function.
Let's say the name of the function is is.
Palindrome.
There will be a string past to it.
So now we don't need this LED SDR here and we are going to shift the code in this function where we
have the pattern defined.
We have the nsdl, which is fine now.
We don't need the console as well.
It was just there to check the output, which is not needed.
You already have the reverse string here.
And then we are going to compare whether if an STR that is the new string or the string itself, I mean,
is equal to the reverse string.
Right.
I'll use the strict equality here.
Then we are going to say return true.
So it is palindrome or else we will return.
It is not.
Now let's say console.log.
Straight away is palindrome, which is a function I'll first of all, pass madam itself.
And we'll run and see what is the output.
So it is true.
Now see this M this first M is capital, and this is the small one that is the upper and lower case.
But that doesn't matter.
Not only that, even if you have a space in between, that also doesn't matter.
Let's try another string which is not palindrome.
I'll say something else.
And we run this.
So it says it is false.
Let's also try a palindrome string with punctuation.
So I'll say man, comma, plan, comma, canal, dot, Panama.
This is one of the very common sentence.
People check for palindromes.
So that's why I have shown here.
We run this?
It says that it is palindrome because you see this man and if you read it right to left, it will be
the same.
So we can use regex for palindrome.
Though there are many ways of finding palindrome string, but regex is a very short way to find whether
a string is palindrome or not.